.. note::

    Hello, welcome to the SunFounder Raspberry Pi & Arduino & ESP32 Enthusiasts Community on Facebook! Dive deeper into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and ESP32 with fellow enthusiasts.

    **Why Join?**

    - **Expert Support**: Solve post-sale issues and technical challenges with help from our community and team.
    - **Learn & Share**: Exchange tips and tutorials to enhance your skills.
    - **Exclusive Previews**: Get early access to new product announcements and sneak peeks.
    - **Special Discounts**: Enjoy exclusive discounts on our newest products.
    - **Festive Promotions and Giveaways**: Take part in giveaways and holiday promotions.

    👉 Ready to explore and create with us? Click [|link_sf_facebook|] and join today!

.. _per_water_tank:

2.6 Smart Water Tank
=============================

In this project, we use a water level sensor module and a servo to simulate a smart water tank. The water level sensor is fixed inside the tank to measure the water level, and when the water level is below a threshold, the valve controlled by the servo is allowed to open to let water in.

* :ref:`cpn_bb`
* :ref:`cpn_water`
* :ref:`cpn_servo`



**Wiring**

|pin_adc|

Pico has three GPIO pins that can use analog input, GP26, GP27, GP28. That is, analog channels 0, 1, and 2.
In addition, there is a fourth analog channel, which is connected to the built-in temperature sensor and will not be introduced here.


|water_tank0|

* S of water level sensor is connected to GP26(A0), + to VBUS, - pin to GND.
* The orange wire (signal) of the servo is connected to GP15, the red wire (power) is connected to VBUS, and the brown wire (ground) is connected to GND. 

**Code**

.. note::

    * You can refer to the image below to write code by dragging and dropping. 
    * Import ``2.6_water_tank.png`` from the path of ``euler-kit\piper``. For detailed tutorials, please refer to :ref:`import_code_piper`.

|water_tank|



After connecting Pico, click the **Start** button and the code starts to run. When the water level is lower than 1/3 of the water level sensor, the servo rotates to 180 degrees to simulate the inlet opening; when the water level is higher than 1/3 of the water level sensor, the servo rotates to 0 degrees to imitate the inlet closing.

**How it Works?**

|water_tank1|

Set the rotation speed of pin15 (servo) to 15%.

* [servo pin() set speed to ()%]：Used to set the rotation speed of the servo pin, the range is 0%~100%.

|water_tank2|

Reads the value of pin A0 and stores it in the variable [water_level].

* [set (water_level) to]: Used to set the value of the variable, you need to create the variable from the **Variables** palette.
* [read voltage from pin ()]: Used to read the voltage of the analog pins (A0~A2), the range is 0 ~ 3.3V.

|water_tank3|

Set the voltage threshold to 1. When the voltage of water level sensor is less than 1, let the servo rotate to 180° position, otherwise rotate to 0° position.

* [servo pin () set angle to ()]: Set the angle of servo pin to, the range is 0 ~ 180°.



