.. note::

    Hello, welcome to the SunFounder Raspberry Pi & Arduino & ESP32 Enthusiasts Community on Facebook! Dive deeper into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, and ESP32 with fellow enthusiasts.

    **Why Join?**

    - **Expert Support**: Solve post-sale issues and technical challenges with help from our community and team.
    - **Learn & Share**: Exchange tips and tutorials to enhance your skills.
    - **Exclusive Previews**: Get early access to new product announcements and sneak peeks.
    - **Special Discounts**: Enjoy exclusive discounts on our newest products.
    - **Festive Promotions and Giveaways**: Take part in giveaways and holiday promotions.

    👉 Ready to explore and create with us? Click [|link_sf_facebook|] and join today!

.. _per_swing_servo:


2.7 Swing Servo
=====================

In this project, we use a servo and a potentiometer to simulate a steering wheel. Rotating the potentiometer will drive the servo to turn together.

* :ref:`cpn_bb`
* :ref:`cpn_pot`
* :ref:`cpn_servo`


**Wiring**

|controllable_servo0|


* The orange wire (signal) of the servo is connected to GP15, the red wire (power) is connected to VBUS, and the brown wire (ground) is connected to GND. 
* Potentiometer is a resistive element with 3 terminals, the 2 side pins are connected to 5V and GND, and the middle pin is connected to GP26(A0).

**Code**

.. note::

    * You can refer to the image below to write code by dragging and dropping. 
    * Import ``2.7_swing_servo.png`` from the path of ``euler-kit\piper``. For detailed tutorials, please refer to :ref:`import_code_piper`.

|controllable_servo|

* After connecting Pico, click the **Start** button and the code starts to run.
* Turn the potentiometer and the servo will follow. To see it clearly, you can insert a rocker arm in the servo shaft.

**How it Works?**

|controllable_servo1|

Set the rotation speed of pin15 (servo) to 15%.

* [servo pin() set speed to ()%]：Used to set the rotation speed of the servo pin, the range is 0%~100%.

|controllable_servo2|

Create a variable [angle], then read the voltage of A0. Use the [map value () from () to ()] block, map the voltage of A0 from 0 to 3.3V voltage range to 0 to 180°, and then use the mapped angle as the rotation angle of the servo.

* [map value () from () to ()]: map a value from one range to another.

.. note::
    The voltage of A0~A2 takes the range of 0~3.3V, even if your power supply is connected to VBUS (5V).